cicd/tekton/README.md, before:

# Tekton pipelines

This demonstrates the use of tekton to build and deploy environments in a cluster using the skaffold and kaniko builder.
The entire build is done in the cluster itself. No external tooling is required.

## Pre-reqs

* Create a `kaniko-secret` in the default namespace. `kubectl create secret generic kaniko-secret --from-file=kaniko-secret`.
   The secret is the GCP service account json that has privileges to push/pull images to gcr.io
* Optional: install the tkn cli tool. More information: https://github.com/tektoncd/cli
  You can perform actions like:
    tkn pipelinerun logs nightly-pipeline-run-lf7tn -f -n nightly #get pipeline logs
    tkn -n nightly pipeline start nightly-pipeline -s tekton-worker #start a pipeline

## Run

Run the shell script `forgeops/cicd/tekton/install-tekton.sh` to install tekton in your cluster. Then, run the `install-pipeline.sh` script for each desired pipeline.

The Tekton dashboard is also included in this install. To map the dashboard, you can run:

```bash
# Map the svc port
kubectl --namespace tekton-pipelines port-forward svc/tekton-dashboard 9097:9097
# open http://localhost:9097 in your browser
```

## Purging completed pods

Tekton leaves completed pods around to provide status updates and for log output. After several days
you may wish to clean up completed pods. Use the following command:


```
kubectl -n tekton-pipelines delete pod --field-selector=status.phase==Succeeded
```

Commit message:

CLOUD-2708 Tweak the README in the cicd directory

cicd/tekton/README.md, after:

# Tekton Pipelines

The artifacts in the directory provide an example of how you might use 
[Tekton](https://tekton.dev) to build and deploy environments in a cluster using
Skaffold and Kaniko. The entire build is done in the cluster itself. No external
tooling is required.

## Prerequisite

Create a Kubernetes secret named `kaniko-secret` in the default namespace. The
secret must contain the JSON for a GCP service account with privileges to push
and pull images to gcr.io. See the `cicd/bin/gke-kaniko.sh` script for an 
example that creates the service account and the secret.

## Install Software 

* Install the latest Tekton release, including the dashboard, from tekton.dev. 
  See the `cicd/bin/install-tekton.sh` script for an example.

* (Optional) Install the `tkn` CLI tool. This tool lets you perform actions 
  like getting the pipeline logs and starting a pipeline. More information
  [here](https://github.com/tektoncd/cli).

## Install Pipelines

Run the `install-pipeline.sh` script for each desired pipeline in the 
`cicd/tekton/<pipeline>` directory.

To access the Tekton dashboard, run the `cicd/bin/dashboard.sh` script and go 
to http://localhost:9097 in your browser.

## Purging Completed Pods

Tekton leaves completed pods for status updates and log output. After several 
days, you might want to clean up completed pods. Use the following command:

```
kubectl -n tekton-pipelines delete pod --field-selector=status.phase==Succeeded
```
