# ForgeRock DevOps and Cloud Deployment 

Note: This is the master (bleeding edge) for the Docker and Kubernetes assets.

ForgeRock customers and partners can find documentation 
for this in-progress version of the ForgeRock DevOps Examples at 
https://ea.forgerock.com/docs/platform/doc/backstage/devops-guide/index.html.

Public access to the documentation for version 5.0.0 of the ForgeRock DevOps 
Examples is available at https://backstage.forgerock.com/docs/platform/5/devops-guide.


# Quick Start
 
* Knowledge of Kubernetes and Helm is assumed. Please read 
the [helm documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/blob/master/docs/index.md) before proceeding.
* This assumes minikube is running (8G of RAM), and helm and kubectl are installed. 
* See bin/setup.sh for a sample setup script

```sh

# build all the docker images
cd docker
eval $(minikube docker-env)
mvn
cd ..

helm init

cd helm/
helm repo add forgerock https://storage.googleapis.com/forgerock-charts/

# deploy the AM development example. Deploys AM, amster, and DJ config store.
helm install cmp-am-dev 


# Or, deploy idm 
helm install -f cmp-idm-dj-postgres

#Get your minikube ip
minikube ip

# Put an entry in /etc/hosts like this:
# 192.168.99.100 openam.default.example.com openidm.default.example.com openig.default.example.com

open http://openam.default.example.com


```

To change the deployment parameters, FQDN, etc. please see the comments in helm/custom.yaml.


# Contents 

* docker/ -  contains the Dockerfiles for the various containers. 
* helm/ - contains Kubernetes helm charts to deploy those containers. See the helm/README.md
* etc/ - contains various scripts and utilities
* bin/  - This is a symnbolic link to docker/toolbox/bin. It contains utility shell scripts to deploy the helm charts

# Significant Changes

* The ingress now uses the namespace in the FQDN. For example, openam.default.example.com, where default
is the namespace. This allows you to run multiple instances on the same cluster
* Helm release names are now generated by helm (i.e. random). This is necessary because 
release names needs to be unique across the cluster
* Composite charts have been introduced. Charts starting with helm/cmp* are composite charts constructed from
other child charts.

# Tip: Setting a namespace

If you do not want to use the 'default' namespace, set your namespace using:

kubectl config set-context $(kubectl config current-context) --namespace=<insert-namespace-name-here>
