# Helm chart for RCS

## Preparation

### Choose server or client mode

RCS can run in either server or client mode. By default, the chart is
configured for server mode. In server mode IDM connects to RCS, and in client
mode RCS connects to IDM.

### Server mode

#### Create a values.yaml

By default the chart will deploy RCS in server mode without you needing to
provide a custom values.yaml. However, you may want/need to update some values.

If you need/want redundancy for RCS, you can set replicaCount.

`replicaCount: 2`

If you need/want to restrict network traffic to certain IP ranges, you can set
`remoteIps`.

```
  remoteIps:
    - "1.2.3.4/32"
    - "5.6.7.0/24"
```

Set the logging level:

```
  logLevels:
    root: "DEBUG"
```

### Client mode

Currently, client mode is primarily for AIC clients who want to connect a
ForgeOps deployment to their AIC tenant. It is not currently possible to
connect to a ForgeOps deployment in client mode. That will be possible in the
future.

#### Create a values.yaml

Create a values.yaml for your configuration, and update the values according to
the environment. See the defaults/examples in `charts/rcs/values.yaml`.

The WSS URL and token for the IDM endpoint:
```
custom_properties:
  - "connectorserver.url=wss://auth.example.com/openicf"
  - "connectorserver.tokenEndpoint=https://auth.example.com/am/oauth2/realms/root/realms/alpha/access_token"
```

The IP address for the IDM service (e.g. Identity Cloud tenant):
`remoteIps:
  - "1.2.3.4/32"`

The number of pods (replicas) you want to run:
`replicaCount: 2`

Adjust according to log level requirements - e.g. `DEBUG` for test systems:
```
logLevels:
  root: "DEBUG"
```

#### Create secrets

The chart relies on a few secrets to connect to your environment.

Certificates to be installed in the RCS trust store - e.g. issuing CA for LDAPS
server certificates to enable connector trust. Any unique name may be used for
each certificate.

You need the CA cert from the `ds-ssl-keypair` secret in your ForgeOps
deployment. This is so RCS can connect directly to DS which is the most
efficient method.

```
> mkdir /tmp/rcs-certs
> kubectl get secret ds-ssl-keypair -o json | jq '.data["ca.crt"]' | tr -d '"' | base64 -d > /tmp/rcs-certs/ds-ca.crt
```

You can add any other certs you may need to that directory, and create the
secret like this:

`kubectl create secret generic rcs-certs --from-file=/tmp/rcs-certs`

You also need to create a secret to hold the clientId and clientSecret needed to
connect to your PIP deployment. In this example, we are using the default
clientId in AIC called RCSClient. This should be whatever you called the oauth
client in your deployment.

- clientId - The OAuth2 client ID for acquiring an access token
- clientSecret - The OAuth2 client secret for the above client ID
-
`kubectl create secret generic rcs-client-auth --from-literal=clientId=RCSClient --from-literal='clientSecret=Testing123!'`

## Install

Install the RCS Helm chart in the current namespace

`helm install rcs rcs --repo https://ForgeRock.github.io/forgeops -f my-values.yaml`

There should now be running RCS pod(s) - e.g. with 2 replicas:

```
% kubectl get pods
NAME    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
rcs-0   1/1     Running   0          50s
rcs-1   1/1     Running   0          50s
```

### Note password for server mode

In server mode, RCS needs a password that IDM uses to connect. This is
generated by the Helm chart, and put into a secret called `rcs-key`. It has an
encrypted version used by RCS. When you deploy, the Helm chart will output the
cleartext of the password so you can put it into IDM. Be sure to note this
down.

